Hello, I'm Jimmy Carr
and welcome to Drunk History,
the show that brings you
genuine stories...
"You've been staying bad stuff."
"Actually, I haven't."
(laughs)
...as told by blind drunk comedians.
The way they partied is
they just did that.
We've mined the depths of time
for our historical tales.
They bop down there.
But we're not going back
to the Jurassic, just the paralytic.
Whoa!
"Oh, for fuck's sake."
I'll just hold a match
really close to this fuse.
(laughs)
Don't use that. You're gonna have
to use that, aren't you?
We start the show with a story
from the Swinging Sixties.
The Beatles were on the radio,
Harold Wilson was in Number Ten
and your nana was in a mini-skirt,
fucking anything in trousers.
(whoops)
After sinking four glasses
of Prosecco,
a bottle of champagne
and a shot of sambuca,
here's a delightfully drunk
Joe Lycett
to tell us about the Kray twins.
God, that's dog shit.
Hello. I'm going to tell you a story
about how one man brought down
two of arguably the worst criminals
in English history, the Kray twins.
Are you sitting comfortably?
Well, then I'll begin.
It's 1964.
It's the Swinging Sixties.
It's a new era of,
"Hey, I'm going to go over here
and I'm going to do some gay things."
"What? That's not allowed."
"No, it's the Sixties. I'm going to
wank off an old man. Why not?"
So underneath all of that,
two people are making the most of it.
They're called the Kray twins.
Ronnie and Reggie, their names are.
Brilliant names.
They are a couple of mobsters.
Couple of right old geezers.
Couple of silly twats,
you might call them.
The Kray twins were renowned
for having a wall of silence.
Nobody would say anything,
because they were terrified.
I'm terrified of them now.
They've been dead for ages.
They would have friends
who would sit like that in bars.
And if they heard anyone say,
"The Krays",
they'd go, "Someone over there
said something about the Krays."
They'd make a note of them.
Grey hair,
and a small cat
that follows him around.
He's the person to take out.
So the Krays go into the pub
and they'd see the guy with the cat.
They'd walk up and they'd go, "You've
been saying bad stuff about us.
The guy would be like,
"No, no, I haven't."
"Actually, I haven't."
(laughs)
No.
"I didn't say anything
about you guys. I love your work."
"Actually, if you could not hurt me,
that would be really helpful."
And Reggie would go,
"I'm not sure I believe you."
And then he would...
he would sort of thumb his eyes out.
On the other hand,
there's a gentleman called
Thomas "Nipper"... Read.
(man) Leonard.
Leonard Read, Nipper,
is a pretty bad-ass cop.
His boss comes to him and says,
"Could we use your skills
to go and get the Kray twins?"
"Who are a right couple
of nincompoops."
"They're really causing some bother."
(laughs)
So, Nipper Read. Every time...
Every time Nipper says something
to anybody, wall of silence.
Nothing.
People just not giving him anything.
He went up to cat-man
after he'd had his eyes taken out.
He's got no eyes.
And he's like,
"What do you think of the Krays?"
Because this guy has been
really attacked by them,
he's going,
"Erm... fine. Great guys."
"Buh-bye."
That's all you get from everyone.
Nipper was like, "I just wish someone
would say, 'They killed my wife.'"
But nobody would say that.
So, Nipper sort of thinks,
"No-one's gonna tell me anything."
"I'm gonna go and just try
and have a little look,
do a bit of espionage."
"See if I can maybe
look through a window."
And Ronnie goes, "Are you Nipper?"
And he goes...
"No."
He goes, "I know you're hanging out.
Do you want to come in?"
"Have a drink?"
And Nipper goes, "Do you know what?
Actually, yeah, I am Nipper."
"I'll come in. Why not?
Do you do WKDs?"
He says, "We'll work something out."
So he goes into the party
and he has a great time.
He's poured a WKD by Ronnie.
He meets Reggie.
Reggie's like,
"What's your name? Nipper."
"Nice to meet you. What do you do?"
Nipper's like,
"I'll be careful here."
"I'm... a..."
"I work nearby a police station."
"In a... just nearby."
The thing is, Reggie's really off
his tits, so he doesn't notice.
Nipper has a great time.
Lots of LOLs.
Nipper's feeling pretty good
about this.
He's thinking, "I'm in there."
He goes to the boss and he goes,
"Boss, you're going to lose your shit
when you find out
what's just happened."
"Last night, I was watching the Krays
have a party."
"They invited me in.
I'm now friends with them."
And the boss is like,
"I sort of know this, actually."
"Because the phone's been going
all night."
"It was lots of people complaining
about you fraternising
with criminals."
"You have let me down. I am, for want
of a better word, livid with you."
Nipper's devastated.
He's like, "I suppose that looks
really bad, doesn't it?"
"I'm in trouble now, aren't I?
Oh, dear."
So was it. Nipper was off the case.
The Krays, the next morning,
are delighted.
"We took out the police officer.
We're pretty cool."
"Let's have a party."
Then they have another party.
The way they partied
is they just did that.
(laughs)
So, let's speed through
the next few years.
The Krays are getting really good
at being criminals.
On the other hand,
Nipper is basically solving crimes
left, right and centre.
And the boss of the murder squad came
to him and said, "OK, first job."
"Brace yourself.
You're gonna love it."
"It's finding the Kray twins
and getting them sorted out."
Nipper's like, "Oh, for fuck's sake.
This again."
So Nipper realises he's not gonna get
the Krays for any of the big stuff.
The Krays knew. The Krays had
upped the wall of silence.
He goes about
and he sees if he can find out
about a few of the littler crimes.
Little bits that he could then
create a beautiful tapestry of crime
that he could put together
to then put them into jail.
No-one else has been drinking this,
have they?
(man) No.
So, Nipper's compiled his evidence.
He gets all of the lads together
from the police station.
He says, "Right, lads.
Have yourselves a nice espresso,
because you're not going to bed until
we arrest all 26 of these people,"
that he's got written down
on a napkin,
cos he just did it in a rush.
The top two names on that napkin
were Ronnie and Reggie Kray.
The Kray twins.
The people we have been
talking about all along.
And somebody goes,
"Excuse me, Nipper."
"Erm... Who's actually
going to arrest the Krays?"
He goes, "Big news.
Bobby Big Potatoes,
me, Nipper,
is going to get the Krays."
So, they're all outside the house.
Everyone's being very quiet.
Nipper's saying to his team,
"We only have one shot at this.
If we get this wrong..."
"...we'll never get them.
Please, don't let me down."
"This has been
a big part of my life."
"And if we can't get this right..."
"I don't know
if I could live with myself."
Somebody farts.
(farts)
And...
(laughs)
I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
Please don't use that.
You're gonna have to use that,
aren't you?
Erm...
So, they smash through the door.
They run up the stairs.
There's a huge building in tension.
Everyone's like, "This is it."
They smash through the bedroom door.
Then they hear...
(hums Grieg's Morning Mood)
And they're all...
They're all just sleeping.
They're all snug.
They go,
"We brought far too many men."
Pop some handcuffs on and they go,
"That's it. You're nicked."
"We've got all the evidence we need.
We win."
LOL!
And that's how Nipper...
...Nipper Nips got the Krays.
Here's to you, Nipper,
you brill chap.
Nipper and I have a lot in common.
I've also wasted years of my life
trying to get handcuffs
on a pair of twins.
That's it for part one.
Join us after the break for our
drunkest storyteller of the series.
Can I go to the toilet?
I feel rough.
You are not going to want
to miss this one.
Before you jizz, we're gonna stop.
Welcome back. If you like hearing
obscure historical facts
recounted by comedians too pissed
to tie their shoelaces
then you are in luck.
Somebody farts.
(farts)
(laughs) I'm so sorry.
Now we have the story
of how Bonfire Night came to be.
It's one of my favourite times
of the year.
Explosions, raging fires,
frightened children.
Like a cheeky weekend break
in Syria.
Ben Ashenden drank five beers
and three double vodka-Red Bulls
before telling us
how it started.
I was in a drinking society
at university.
In that respect, I should be
better... better... prepared.
I'm going to tell you about
who's responsible for 5th November,
why we're always out there,
watching the fireworks.
The shit fireworks.
And it's not who you think.
You're looking at me
and saying, "Guy Fawkes."
It's not. It's another fella.
You're gonna find out who.
Lot of booze in that.
That is strong.
We're talking May.
We're talking 1604.
King James I, Protestant. Shouldn't
be a problem, unless you're Catholic.
He's not nice to the Catholics.
He's very nasty.
The Catholics are...
Basically, they're livid.
None more so
than a young Robert Catesby.
"Who's Robert Catesby?"
you're asking.
Catholic lad. Intelligent.
Charismatic.
His view was, "I'm dead against
this James I figure."
"I want to take action. It's gotta be
serious. It's gotta be covert."
"I'm gonna set up a meeting
with my lads."
Meet at this pub
called the Duck and Drake.
He says to the lads,
"Boys, boys, boys, boys."
"Us Catholics are
getting done in every day."
"James is smashing us up."
We've got to do something about it."
The lads are going,
"Yeah. Just a fucking bit."
Catesby's saying,
"I've got a little idea."
He can't wait to tell them.
They're going, "What?
Should we petition for government?"
"Should we educate the people
as to the Catholic plight?"
He's going, "Well,
my idea is we blow up the Houses
of Parliament and kill everyone."
They're going, "What? Kill everyone?"
He's going, "Yeah.
Why, what were you guys thinking?"
"To be perfectly honest, Robert,
that's fucking mental, man."
"You're talking about blowing up
the... What?"
Catesby's like,
"Boys, boys... boys."
"I've checked out all the other
systems. The other routes."
"And it's no go."
"We've gotta blow the shit up.
All of it."
Next step.
"I've got a lad.
He's called Guy Fawkes."
"Trust me,
he's the boy for the deal."
"A, he's from Yorkshire.
B, he's well up for it."
"C... To be perfectly honest,
he's mental."
(burps)
That's a deep burp.
Guy Fawkes walks in.
He says, "All right, lads?
Can I be honest with y'all?"
"I am dead against
this King James the fella."
"I'm gonna wipe him out."
"I am going to A,
rent a basement
underneath the Houses of Parliament."
"B, I'm going to fill it
with gunpowder."
"C, gonna blow it up."
(laughs)
So, they've got the cellar.
They come in there
with their gunpowder,
barrels and barrels
of the fucking shit.
The Catholics are
shitting themselves.
They're thinking, "Oh, hang on.
I've got a couple of mates up there."
One of them writes
to his brother-in-law
to warn him about not turning up.
So he gets this letter.
He's thinking, "Oh, my God.
I've gotta do something about this."
The king's mates have a look at it.
They can't work it out.
The king goes, "Oi, oi, oi! Boys!
Let me have a look at that."
He goes, "Let's have a look at this."
"Whoa!"
"That says 'a terrible surprise'
and 'a massive blow'."
"Guys, they're going to blow up
the Houses of Parliament."
"How have you not...
How have you not..."
"I pay you guys fucking loads.
And you're just letting me down."
So, King James has worked it out.
He's worked out
that they're gonna pounce
on the first night of Parliament.
So he said, "All right, lads.
Let's not be hasty."
"We'll let them get into position
and then we..."
"...get them. Right red-handed."
(clanking)
Meanwhile, the Catholics are getting
a bit nervous,
because Catholic sympathisers
have said,
"Oi, I've heard the king
and his mates know about the plan."
They've said,
"Oh, shit. We are done here."
One Catholic decides, "No."
"I've got it under control.
Don't worry about it."
"My name is Guy Fawkes."
So Guy Fawkes stays in the cellar.
The others... go away.
He's thinking,
"What are you worried about?"
"If you come down here, I will blow
this... I will blow this..."
"I will blow this place up."
"If you..."
So, king's on it.
He says, "Find out if there's anyone
down there who is suspicious."
"Or any Catholics."
The King's men, they bop down there.
They find a certain someone.
He's chilling. He's going...
"You all right?" The guards are like,
"All right, mate? Who are you?"
Guy Fawkes is like,
"Er... my name is..."
"...John... Johns... Johnson."
He gives the name John Johnson.
He's a fucking cretin.
They go, "OK. Well, obviously
fake name. What are you doing here?"
He goes, "What am I doing here?
I'm looking after the barrels of..."
"...gunpowder."
Whoa!
"Whoa! That's a lot of gunpowder."
He goes, "It's not that much."
"Well, 36 barrels, mate."
"What's 36 barrels for?"
(burps)
Oh, man. Can I go to the toilet?
I feel rough.
(man) Go to the toilet.
In a Drunk History first, Ben was
genuinely unable to continue.
After he'd chugged his guts up,
we safely put him to bed
and asked Russell Kane if he fancied
necking a vodka martini,
two double Southern Comforts
and a vodka and Coke
before finishing the story. He
generously accepted. What a hero.
So, Fawkes is taken to the king.
Totally sprung.
The king says to him,
"Dude, do you know what I mean?"
"You definitely... You're definitely
nicked. What's your name?"
He says, "It's John Johnson."
The king was like, "That's
convincing. My name's King Kingly."
They had a bit of banter.
He was like, "Tell you what."
"I'll let you off lightly if you
tell us who you're working with."
Guy was like,
"I was working on my own."
He was like,
"There's 36 barrels there."
"There's no way you've tugged 36
barrels on your own. You liar."
"Fucking Pinocchio mug.
Right. We're gonna torture you."
So they did mild torture methods.
Stuff like,
"We're gonna give you a hand shandy."
"Just before you jizz,
we're gonna stop."
Then they started doing proper stuff.
One of them did a Chinese burn.
He's like, "I can't take it!"
Guy Fawkes held out
for as long as he could.
He lets little pathetic details
slip out, like,
"I wanted to kill the king."
The king's like, "Right.
We've got the information."
"Let's go and find Catesby."
Catesby's like, "The king's coming."
"We'd better check the weapons are
cool, cos we're in a damp house."
"Mildew could have got
into the weapons."
A guy's like, "They look good to me."
"I'll just hold a match
really close to this fuse."
"If it's fucked, it won't explode."
(explosion)
Some of them were blinded.
Some had third-degree burns.
Some knew what to do
and put Clingfilm around the burn.
So the King's thinking,
"I'm not looking forward to this."
He's built it up in his head.
They were going to bring down
the Houses of Parliament.
Kick the door open
with his king foot,
expecting them
to be these ultimate assassins.
Inside is a bunch of fucking
dickheads who'd exploded themselves.
They nick them.
King's like, "You're coming with me."
"I've got nothing to cuff.
There's just a stump."
That's how they found them.
So, King James, to celebrate the day
that Guy Fawkes and his evil plot
was defeated,
he created 5th November
as an event we can celebrate.
Or, as I like to remember it,
when my cousin stuck a sparkler
in his urethra.
Erm...
(laughs)
That's the story of Guy Fawkes.
If you hadn't vomited on the floor,
you'd have finished it yourself.
Get well soon, Ben.
Let that be a lesson to you viewers.
Don't get too drunk, or Russell Kane
will steal your thunder.
That's all for tonight.
This was Drunk History.
I've been Jimmy Carter. Goodnight.
Who fancies a kebab?